Using HTTP Bridge as a Kubernetes sidecar (#251)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2021-08-15-using-http-bridge-as-a-kubernetes-sidecar.md

---
layout: post

> title:  "Using HTTP Bridge as a Kubernetes sidecar"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title:  "Using Kafka Bridge as a Kubernetes sidecar"
```

date: 2021-08-15
author: jakub_scholz
---

> Bridging between Apache Kafka and HTTP protocols is something users are often asking for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bridging between Apache Kafka and HTTP protocols is something Kafka users are often asking for.
```

> That is why in Strimzi we have our own HTTP Bridge which does exactly that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is why in Strimzi we have our own Kafka Bridge which does exactly that.
```

> You can easily deploy the bridge using the Strimzi operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can easily deploy the bridge using the Strimzi Cluster Operator.
```

> The HTTP Bridge does not directly support any security features such as authentication or encryption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kafka Bridge does not directly support any security features such as authentication or encryption.
```

For securing it and exposing it to the outside of your Kubernetes cluster, you can use any API Gateway or reverse proxy.

> But there are also other ways how you can use it - for example as Kubernetes sidecar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But there are also other ways how you can use it -- for example, as a Kubernetes sidecar.
```

<!--more-->

## Kubernetes Sidecar Pattern

The _sidecar pattern_ is one of the most common patterns used to run applications on Kubernetes.
When using the sidecar pattern, your Pods will consist of multiple containers running in parallel.
The main container with your application will share the Pod with one or more sidecar containers.
The sidecar containers typically give the main application some additional features. 
The containers running inside the same Pod are always scheduled together on the same node and share networking or storage.
They typically communicate with each other either using a shared volume or using local network connections.

> The typical sidecar use-cases include different proxies or file loaders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typical sidecar use cases include different proxies or file loaders.
```

![Kubernetes Sidecar Pattern](/assets/images/posts/2021-08-15-kubernetes-sidecar-pattern.png)

> ## Strimzi HTTP Bridge as a Sidecar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Strimzi Kafka Bridge as a Sidecar
```

> The Strimzi HTTP Bridge can be used as a sidecar as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Strimzi Kafka Bridge can be used as a sidecar as well.
```

> It could be useful if your application isn't able to use Kafka clients directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This could be useful if your application isn't able to use Kafka clients directly.
```

> For example because it already supports HTTP and adding Kafka client would be too complicated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, because it already supports HTTP and adding a Kafka client would be too complicated.
```

> Or because the programming language you use doesn't have a good Kafka support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or because the programming language you use doesn't have good Kafka support.
```

> ![HTTP Bridge Sidecar](/assets/images/posts/2021-08-15-bridge-sidecar.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Kafka Bridge Sidecar](/assets/images/posts/2021-08-15-bridge-sidecar.png)
```

The bridge will connect to the Kafka cluster.
And the main application can use it to send and receive Kafka messages using HTTP.
And since both containers are in the same Pod and share the same network, they can use localhost for communication.
So you do not need to open the bridge to the outside of the Pod and instead keep it available only internally.
That also means less worries about securing the HTTP interface of the bridge.

## Example Deployment

> So, how do you use the Strimzi HTTP Bridge as a sidecar?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, how do you use the Strimzi Kafka Bridge as a sidecar?
```

Let's have a look at an example which will use TLS encryption and client authentication between the bridge and the Kafka cluster.
You can of course modify it to our needs and use different configurations as well.

### Preparation

> This examples uses a Kafka cluster deployed with Strimzi operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example uses a Kafka cluster deployed with the Strimzi operator.
```

> This example uses a Kafka cluster deployed with the Strimzi operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses a Kafka cluster deployed with the Strimzi Cluster Operator.
```

> Before we deploy the application with the bridge sidecar, we have to install Strimzi cluster operator and deploy the Kafka cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before we deploy the application with the bridge sidecar, we have to install the Strimzi cluster operator and deploy the Kafka cluster.
```

> Before we deploy the application with the bridge sidecar, we have to install the Strimzi cluster operator and deploy the Kafka cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we deploy the application with the bridge sidecar, we have to install the Strimzi Cluster Operator and deploy the Kafka cluster.
```

> You can install the cluster operator with the installation method you prefer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install the Cluster Operator with the installation method you prefer.
```

> And then deploy the Kafka cluster with the TLS client authentication enabled on port 9093 and enabled authorization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then deploy the Kafka cluster with the TLS client authentication enabled on port 9093 and authorization also enabled:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    replicas: 3
    listeners:
      - name: tls
        port: 9093
        type: internal
        tls: true
        authentication:
          type: tls
    authorization:
      type: simple
    config:
      offsets.topic.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.replication.factor: 3
      transaction.state.log.min.isr: 2
    storage:
      type: jbod
      volumes:
      - id: 0
        type: persistent-claim
        size: 100Gi
        deleteClaim: true
  zookeeper:
    replicas: 3
    storage:
      type: persistent-claim
      size: 100Gi
      deleteClaim: true
  entityOperator:
    topicOperator: {}
    userOperator: {}
```

Once the cluster is running, we will need a user which will be used by the bridge sidecar.

> We configure the user for TLS client authentication and configure authorization to allow it to send and receive examples from topic named `my-topic`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We configure the user for TLS client authentication and configure authorization to allow it to send and receive examples from a topic named `my-topic`:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaUser
metadata:
  name: bridge
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  authentication:
    type: tls
  authorization:
    type: simple
    acls:
      # Consume from topic my-topic using consumer group my-group
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Read
        host: "*"
      - resource:
          type: group
          name: my-group
          patternType: literal
        operation: Read
        host: "*"
      # Producer messages to topic my-topic
      - resource:
          type: topic
          name: my-topic
          patternType: literal
        operation: Write
        host: "*"
```

> And the topic where we will send and receive the messages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And create the topic where we will send and receive the messages:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: KafkaTopic
metadata:
  name: my-topic
  labels:
    strimzi.io/cluster: my-cluster
spec:
  partitions: 1
  replicas: 1
```

### Configuring the bridge

> When you deploy the Strimzi HTTP Bridge using the cluster operator, you just have to create the `KafkaBridge` custom resource and the operator takes care of the rest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you deploy the Strimzi Kafka Bridge using the Cluster Operator, you just have to create the `KafkaBridge` custom resource and the operator takes care of the rest.
```

Author: ```suggestion
When you deploy the Strimzi HTTP Bridge using the Cluster Operator, you just have to create the `KafkaBridge` custom resource and the operator takes care of the rest.
```

It generates the bridge configuration and creates the deployment.
But for running as a sidecar, the operator will not help us and we have to do this on our own.

> The way we will do it in this blog post is that we will create a Config Map with the bridge configuration, mount it as a file into the Pod and use it to start the bridge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way we will do it in this blog post is to create a ConfigMap with the bridge configuration, mount it as a file into the Pod and use it to start the bridge.
```

The bridge configuration file is a simple properties file.

> We will use Apache Kafka configuration providers to inject into it some additional values such as foe example the TLS certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use Apache Kafka configuration providers to inject into it some additional values, such as the TLS certificates.
```

First, we will specify the `bridge.id` which will be used to identify our bridge instance:

```properties
bridge.id=bridge-sidecar
```

Next, we have to enable and configure the HTTP part of the bridge.
Its configuration options always start with the `http.` prefix.
We have to enable the HTTP bridge by setting `http.enabled` to `true`.

> And we also need to configure the host on which the HTTP bridge will listen and the port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And we also need to configure the host and port on which the HTTP bridge will listen.
```

Since we want the bridge to be available only to the other containers running in the same Pod, we will tell it to listen only on the local interface by setting `http.host` to `127.0.0.1`.
And we set the port on which it will listen to `8080`.
This port has to be unique within the whole Pod.
So if your main application already uses the same port, you can just change the bridge to listen on some other port.

```properties
http.enabled=true
http.host=127.0.0.1
http.port=8080
```

Last, we also need to configure the Kafka part of the bridge.

> The bridge is using 3 different Apache Kafka APIs to communicate with Kafka: the Consumer API, Producer API, and the Admin API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The bridge uses 3 different Apache Kafka APIs to communicate with Kafka: the Consumer API, Producer API, and the Admin API.
```

Each one has its own purpose.

> In the bridge configuration files, you can configure all of these at once or separately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the bridge configuration files, you can configure these together or separately.
```

> The general options which will be applied to all three Apache Kafka APIs should be prefixed with `kafka.`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
General options which will be applied to all three Apache Kafka APIs should be prefixed with `kafka.`.
```

> We will use this to configure the configuration providers, bootstrap servers, authentication etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use this to configure the configuration providers, bootstrap servers, authentication and other API options.
```

> First we will initialize the [Strimzi EnvVar Configuration Provider](https://github.com/strimzi/kafka-env-var-config-provider) which we will use to load values from environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, we will initialize the [Strimzi EnvVar Configuration Provider](https://github.com/strimzi/kafka-env-var-config-provider) which we will use to load values from environment variables.
```

> It is already part of the Strimzi container image, so we do not need to modify the container image and we just need to initialize it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is already part of the Strimzi container image, so we do not need to modify the container image. We just need to initialize it.
```

> When customizing the example configuration for your own use-cases, you can of course also use the other configuration providers such as the `FileConfigProvider` or `DirectoryConfigProvider` which are part of Apache Kafka or the [Strimzi Kubernetes Configuration Provider](https://strimzi.io/blog/2021/07/22/using-kubernetes-config-provider-to-load-data-from-secrets-and-config-maps/) which is also already included in the container image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When customizing the example configuration for your own use cases, you can of course also use the other configuration providers such as the `FileConfigProvider` or `DirectoryConfigProvider` which are part of Apache Kafka or the [Strimzi Kubernetes Configuration Provider](https://strimzi.io/blog/2021/07/22/using-kubernetes-config-provider-to-load-data-from-secrets-and-config-maps/) which is also already included in the container image.
```

But this example uses only the EnvVar provider:

```properties
kafka.config.providers=env
kafka.config.providers.env.class=io.strimzi.kafka.EnvVarConfigProvider
```

Next, we will configure the Kafka clients to connect to our Kafka cluster and authenticate.
The cluster and user certificates will be mapped from their Secrets to environment variables.
And the configuration provider will use the values from the environment variables.

> We will also configure the `bootstrap.servers` option through environment variable to make it easier to change where the bridge connects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will also configure the `bootstrap.servers` option through environment variables to make it easier to change where the bridge connects.
```

```properties
kafka.bootstrap.servers=${env:BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS}
kafka.security.protocol=SSL
kafka.ssl.keystore.type=PEM
kafka.ssl.keystore.certificate.chain=${env:USER_CRT}
kafka.ssl.keystore.key=${env:USER_KEY}
kafka.ssl.truststore.type=PEM
kafka.ssl.truststore.certificates=${env:CA_CRT}
kafka.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm=HTTPS
```

> In addition to the options with the `kafka.` prefix, we can also add option with the prefixes `kafka.consumer.`, `kafka.producer.`, and `kafka.admin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the options with the `kafka.` prefix, we can also add options with the prefixes `kafka.consumer.`, `kafka.producer.`, and `kafka.admin`.
```

> These options can be used to pass some specific options which will be applied only to the Consumer API, Producer API, or Admin API clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These prefixes can be used to pass specific options that apply only to the Consumer API, Producer API, or Admin API clients.
```

For example, we can configure the `acks` mode for producers or `auto.offset.reset` for consumers:

```properties
kafka.producer.acks=1
kafka.consumer.auto.offset.reset=earliest
```

> The Config Map with the complete configuration file should look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ConfigMap with the complete configuration file should look like this:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: bridge-configuration
data:
  bridge.properties: |
    bridge.id=bridge-sidecar

    # HTTP related settings
    http.enabled=true
    http.host=127.0.0.1
    http.port=8080

    # Configuration Providers
    kafka.config.providers=env
    kafka.config.providers.env.class=io.strimzi.kafka.EnvVarConfigProvider

    # General Kafka settings
    kafka.bootstrap.servers=${env:BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS}
    kafka.security.protocol=SSL
    kafka.ssl.keystore.type=PEM
    kafka.ssl.keystore.certificate.chain=${env:USER_CRT}
    kafka.ssl.keystore.key=${env:USER_KEY}
    kafka.ssl.truststore.type=PEM
    kafka.ssl.truststore.certificates=${env:CA_CRT}
    kafka.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm=HTTPS

    # Kafka Producer options
    kafka.producer.acks=1

    # Kafka Consumer options
    kafka.consumer.auto.offset.reset=earliest
```

### Deploying the Sidecar

Now we will deploy a Pod with two containers.
The _main_ container will run CentOS 7 and it will be configured to just sleep.

> Later, we will exec into it and use `curl` to sed and receive messages through the bridge.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Later, we will exec into it and use `curl` to send and receive messages through the bridge.
```

The second container will be our sidecar with the bridge.

> We will mount the Config Map with the bridge sidecar as a volume and map the certificates to the environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will mount the ConfigMap with the bridge sidecar as a volume and map the certificates to the environment variables.
```

      env:
        - name: BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS
          value: my-cluster-kafka-bootstrap:9093
        - name: USER_CRT
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: bridge
              key: user.crt
        - name: USER_KEY
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: bridge
              key: user.key
        - name: CA_CRT
          valueFrom:
            secretKeyRef:
              name: my-cluster-cluster-ca-cert
              key: ca.crt
      volumeMounts:
        - name: bridge-configuration
          mountPath: /etc/strimzi-bridge
  volumes:
    - name: bridge-configuration
      configMap:
        name: bridge-configuration
  restartPolicy: Never
```

### Using the sidecar

Once the pod is up and running, we can try to use the sidecar.
We will exec into the main container:

```
kubectl exec -ti bridge-sidecar -c main -- bash
```

And we can try to send some messages from it using `curl` to `localhost:8080`:

```
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/topics/my-topic \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json' \
     -d '{ "records": [ { "value": "Hello World!" } ] }'
```

> When the message is sent, we should get as response confirmation like this, which tells us into which partition was the message sent and at which offset it is stored:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the message is sent, we should get as response confirmation like this, which tells us into which partition the message was sent and at which offset it is stored:
```

```json
{"offsets":[{"partition":0,"offset":0}]}
```

Next, we can try to receive the message.
First, we have to create the consumer with the consumer group `my-group`:

```
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/consumers/my-group \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json' \
     -d '{
           "name": "my-consumer",
           "auto.offset.reset": "earliest",
           "format": "json",
           "enable.auto.commit": true,
           "fetch.min.bytes": 512,
           "consumer.request.timeout.ms": 30000
         }'
```

Then we subscribe to the topic `my-topic`:

```
curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/consumers/my-group/instances/my-consumer/subscription \
     -H 'Content-Type: application/vnd.kafka.v2+json' \
     -d '{
           "topics": [
             "my-topic"
           ]
         }'
```

And then we can just consume the messages:

```
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/consumers/my-group/instances/my-consumer/records \
     -H 'Accept: application/vnd.kafka.json.v2+json'
```

You might need to call this command multiple times while the consumer initializes.

> But eventually you should get the message we have sent before:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But eventually you should get the message that was sent before:
```

```json
[{"topic":"my-topic","key":null,"value":"Hello World!","partition":0,"offset":0}]
```

> And that is it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And that's it.
```

> We have now working pod with the HTTP bridge as a sidecar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have now working pod with the Kafka Bridge as a sidecar.
```

> For more details about the `curl` commands and how to use the bridge, you can check the [HTTP Bridge documentation](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/full/using.html#assembly-kafka-bridge-quickstart-str) and its [API reference](https://strimzi.io/docs/bridge/latest/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details about the `curl` commands and how to use the bridge, you can check the [Kafka Bridge documentation](https://strimzi.io/docs/operators/latest/full/using.html#assembly-kafka-bridge-quickstart-str) and its [API reference](https://strimzi.io/docs/bridge/latest/).
```

## More complex example

The previous example with manually executed `curl` commands shows how to deploy and use the bridge sidecar.
But it is of course rather simple.
If you are interested in something more complex, we have another example for you.

> It is using our [example HTTP clients](https://github.com/strimzi/client-examples) coupled with the bridge sidecar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It uses our [example HTTP clients](https://github.com/strimzi/client-examples) coupled with the bridge sidecar.
```

It creates two deployments - one for producing and one for consuming messages.
The full YAML of this example can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/scholzj/8902c6bb3de9fa7fbc6e75ee22ee870e).

> ## When to use it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## When to use a Kafka Bridge sidecar
```

> This blog post shows an alternative way how to use the Strimzi HTTP Bridge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blog post shows an alternative way how to use the Strimzi Kafka Bridge.
```

When running as a sidecar, a separate instance of the bridge runs with every instance of your application.
That way, it might consume more resources compared to using a single central instance of the bridge deployed by the operator.

But running it as a sidecar has also some advantages.
Since the bridge is used only locally, you have less worries about securing it.

> You do not need any API Gateway or Proxy to secure it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You do not need any API Gateway or reverse proxy to secure it.
```

You have also less worries about scaling the bridge.

> Each instance of your application will have its own bridge instance and will behave exactly as if it used a built in Kafka client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each instance of your application will have its own bridge instance and will behave exactly as if it used a built-in Kafka client.
```

> Even when using it to consume messages, it will have exactly the same properties as native Kafka client including message ordering or partitions assignments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even when using it to consume messages, it will have exactly the same properties as a native Kafka client including message ordering or partitions assignments.
```

> Using a Kafka client directly in your application will still give you better performance and should be still preferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a Kafka client directly in your application will still give you better performance and should still be the preferred approach.
```

But if you for some reason cannot do it, the bridge sidecar is a real option to consider.

## Beyond Kubernetes

> The sidecar pattern is well known Kubernetes pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sidecar pattern is a well known Kubernetes pattern.
```

```properties
kafka.producer.acks=1
kafka.consumer.auto.offset.reset=earliest
```

The ConfigMap with the complete configuration file should look like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: bridge-configuration
data:
  bridge.properties: |
    bridge.id=bridge-sidecar

    # HTTP related settings
    http.enabled=true
    http.host=127.0.0.1
    http.port=8080

    # Configuration Providers
    kafka.config.providers=env
    kafka.config.providers.env.class=io.strimzi.kafka.EnvVarConfigProvider

    # General Kafka settings
    kafka.bootstrap.servers=${env:BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS}
    kafka.security.protocol=SSL
    kafka.ssl.keystore.type=PEM
    kafka.ssl.keystore.certificate.chain=${env:USER_CRT}
    kafka.ssl.keystore.key=${env:USER_KEY}
    kafka.ssl.truststore.type=PEM
    kafka.ssl.truststore.certificates=${env:CA_CRT}
    kafka.ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm=HTTPS

    # Kafka Producer options
    kafka.producer.acks=1

    # Kafka Consumer options
    kafka.consumer.auto.offset.reset=earliest
```

### Deploying the Sidecar

Now we will deploy a Pod with two containers.

> The _main_ container will run CentOS 7 and it will be configured to just sleep.

Reviewer 3: You use ubi8 in the pod example

Author: Good point. Thanks.
